1. Which tool have you used for Implement CI/CD? 
      Jenkins
2.  Any Alternate tool do you know for CI/CD?
     Bamboo, UDeploy, Team city, TFS
3.  What is Continuous Integration?
Get the Source code from Central repository and Compile the code, Test the code and build      the code   push to artifactory tools.

4. What are the jobs that u configured in Jenkins?
     1. Freestyle 2. Pipeline 3.Multiconfiguration

5. What are the types of jobs available in Jenkins?
     a. Freestyle b. Maven c. Pipeline d. Multibranch Pipeline e. build flow
6. Difference between freestyle and Pipeline job?
   Freestyle Job: All are User based it takes more execution time, everything is executed in the             agent, only master node.
   Pipeline Job: Less Execution time any where we can execute.
7. What is Jenkins Pipeline?
Declare the job as a code and execution flow as a code and execute the no of jobs through pipeline
8.  What is Declarative pipeline?
Declarative Pipeline is new type, in this we can declare no of stages under one node single   agent.
9. Difference between declarative and Script based pipeline?
In Declarative pipeline no of stages under single node. While Script based pipeline each stage have each node.
10. What is Pipeline Syntax?
      Declarative or Script based
11. Master Slave architecture what is the use?
      If we want to save the Jenkins space we should go for Slave 
12.  How many ways to connect Slave nodes?
a. Webstart b. SSH agent c. Execution of command on the master d. Lets Jenkins Control this         windows slave as a windows service
13.  How many ways you have provide security for your Jenkins servers?
       a. Ldap Based Security b. Matrix based Security
14. What is SonarQube Have you configured? How you Configure?
      Sonar Cube: Static Code Analysis, Yes I Configured using Sonar-Project. Properties   Language. which folder wants to monitor and passed the quality gates, if quality gates failure build also failure
15. What type of Artifact repo tools have you used?
      Nexus: Backup of the old Previous Successful build job.
      Pro:  Commercial
16. What is the use of artifact tools?
      For taking backup of successful builds, share the Libraries to the teams.
17. How do you declare variables in pipeline?
      Simple we can declare the variables and assign the values.
18.  What is DSL Language?
       Domain specific language using Groovy language, pipeline syntax is the DSL language.
19. If you have 10 Repositories in github, how many jobs you can configure?
      10 Jobs we can create.
20. Do you have experience in installing the Jenkins?
      Yes.
21. How you Configure jdk maven, gradle etc?
     Under Configuration tab home of all softwares.
22. In my environment I have different versions for java implementations projects is there?    
       Can you configure multiple JDKs?
        
         Go to configure section, manage jenkins-Global tool configuration

23.  What are the plugins you have used in your project?
       
        Nexus Artifactory, Nexus Uploader, Build plugin, mavenplugin, Pipeline plugin.

24. How to take backup of my Jenkins?
   
      Thin backup plugin

25. What is Jenkins home directory?

      .Jenkins

26.  How to delete old builds automatically?

Go to Job configure, Select the discard old builds and keep the entries with our    requirements, no  of days to keep builds, maximum no of builds to keep.
        
27. How to configure multiple environment deployment?
      
      Build with parametised




       
       
      
    













